reword membership page (#72)
OBF/OBF.github.io: content/page/get-involved.md

---
author: The OBF
cover:
  alt: obf_membership
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2019/02/obf_membership.jpg
date: "2019-02-04T19:04:53+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/wp/?page_id=2546
title: Get Involved
url: /get-involved/
aliases:
  - /membership/

---
# Join the OBF community

> The OBF is a community that invites anyone who is involved in or plans to become involved in promoting open source or open science in a biological field to get involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OBF invites anyone who is involved or plans to become involved in promoting open source and/or open science in a biological field to join its community.
```

> There are many ways you can become part of our growing community, regardless of your career state, experience with open source/science.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways you can become part of our growing community, regardless of your career stage and experience with open source and open science.
```

## Join our online spaces

The OBF community has a number of different online spaces that are open to everyone and can be used to network and discuss anything related to open bioinformatics. You can:

* [Subscribe to our regular OBF newsletter](https://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) (and if you have news to share, you can [also suggest topics](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/issues).
* You can [join our community _Slack_](https://join.slack.com/t/open-bio/shared_invite/zt-1pnswao9y-8igcckVxBXhQHCMweHt_NA), where you will find fellow open bioinformatics folks to chat with.

> * We also [have an open _LinkedIn_ group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/9539620/) to get in touch with folks, find interesting job opportunities and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We also have an open [_LinkedIn_ group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/9539620/), where one can get in touch with folks, find interesting job opportunities and more.
```

> * Last but not least, we also have active presences on social media, on both [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/openbio.bsky.social) and [Mastodon](https://genomic.social/@openbio).

Reviewer 2: How about something like this:

```
* We also have active presences on social media, on both [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/openbio.bsky.social) and [Mastodon](https://genomic.social/@openbio).
* Last but not least, our [member projects](/projects) like Biopython have their own communication channels.
```

Sadly that may need to wait and be done as part of #73.

Author: Oh, great catch!

## Come to our in-person and virtual events

> We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated [_Collaboration Fest_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/).

Reviewer 2: Do we have an ever-fresh URL for the CoFest (like the BOSC one)?

Author: we do actually! will use that one!

> We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated [_Collaboration Fest_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated _Collaboration Fest_ (e.g., see the [2025 event](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/)).
```

> We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated _Collaboration Fest_ (e.g., see the [2025 event](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/)).

Author: ```suggestion
We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated [_Collaboration Fest_(/events/bosc/collaborationfest/).
```

These events are a great way to meet others engaged in open source/science around biology.
BOSC features talks, posters and panel discussions on the latest research in open bioinformatics, while 
Collaboration Fest offers the chance to work together with others on improving open bioinformatics tools, by coding but also writing documentation and other non-coding tasks.

# Applying to become a voting member of OBF

> You can also apply to become a voting member of the Open Bioinformatics Foundation, which allows voting on larger OBF issues. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also apply to become a voting member of the Open Bioinformatics Foundation, which allows voting on larger OBF issues, including changes to the OBF's governing document, the [bylaws](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/master/OBF%20Bylaws.pdf). 
```

To be considered as a voting member, you must already be actively and demonstrably engaged in open bioinformatics work in some form.
Examples of such engagement could include contributing to existing open bioinformatics projects, publishing in the field, or attending open source bioinformatics conferences such as BOSC.

> The reason for this requirement is that we expect members to have a long-term engagement with both the field and the OBF itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason for this requirement is that we expect voting members to have a long-term engagement with both the field and the OBF itself.
```

The OBF requires a quorum for voting, so we want OBF members to remain actively involved.

The best time and place to join is at the annual [BOSC](/events/bosc/) conference, because attendees are automatically deemed eligible based on the fact that they attended BOSC, but you can apply for membership at any time. 

![](/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/obf_membership.jpg)

## History and Bylaws

> The OBF membership body was formally established at the 2005 Board of Directors meeting. As laid out in the [OBF Bylaws](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/master/OBF%20Bylaws.md), officers in the Board of Directors will be elected from the nominees by the membership, and candidates for future Directors will be nominated from the membership when seats are added or a term expires.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that gives quite the right impression for Board Officer elections, but can't immediately think of how to clarify it.

Author: Looking at the bylaws this seems like it's in theory how the process works, in practice I'm not sure if we ever had the membership at large suggest candidates? Tried to suggest a slight rewording to make it clearer:

```suggestion
The OBF membership body was formally established at the 2005 Board of Directors meeting. As laid out in the [OBF Bylaws](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/master/OBF%20Bylaws.md), the Board of Directors will elects Directors when terms expire or new seats are added from the pool of candidates that the membership nominated.
```

Author: That's what I tried to convey in my suggested change above, do you think there's a better/clearer way to put that?

Author: Gotcha, edited it to be that!

---

> author: kushinauwu

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> author: kushinauwu

Author: not sure if Hugo likes non-authored posts

cover:
  alt: obf_membership
  image: /wp-content/uploads/2019/02/obf_membership.jpg
date: "2019-02-04T19:04:53+00:00"
guid: https://www.open-bio.org/wp/?page_id=2546

> title: Get Involved

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Get Involved with OBF
```

Reviewer 3: i like pages to be fully identified so i don't have a bunch of tabs that all say "Get Involved" (from different sites), but i don't feel strongly about this.

Reviewer 2: So no change needed?

url: /get-involved/
aliases:
  - /membership/

---
# Join the OBF community

The OBF is a community that invites anyone who is involved in or plans to become involved in promoting open source or open science in a biological field to get involved.
There are many ways you can become part of our growing community, regardless of your career state, experience with open source/science.

## Join our online spaces

> The OBF community has a number of different online spaces that are open to everyone and are used to network and discuss anything related to open bioinformatics. You can:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The OBF community has a number of different online spaces that are open to everyone and can be used to network and discuss anything related to open bioinformatics. You can:
```

> * [Subscribe to our regular OBF newsletter](https://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) (and if you have news to share, you can [also suggest topics](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/issues).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* [Subscribe to our OBF newsletter](https://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) (and if you have news to share, you can [also suggest topics](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/issues).
```

Reviewer 3: it's kind of the opposite of "regular" :-) but not sure if we should say something to reassure that it's infrequent ("roughly quarterly"? "several times a year"?) rather than the annoying DAILY newsletters that some organizations like to send

Reviewer: I'd argue the main point here is that there is a newsletter one can subscribe to. We don't need to make a commitment, or note some caveats, to its frequency; after all, the frequency is subject to change depending on volunteer resources.

> * [Subscribe to our regular OBF newsletter](https://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) (and if you have news to share, you can [also suggest topics](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/issues).

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary. I.e., it seems very unlikely that someone might be deterred from subscribing because of a concern that it's too frequent off the bat.

> * [Subscribe to our regular OBF newsletter](https://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) (and if you have news to share, you can [also suggest topics](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/issues).

Author: far enough, went with the suggestion of just removing it as @nlharris had made

> * You can [join our community _Slack_](https://join.slack.com/t/open-bio/shared_invite/zt-1pnswao9y-8igcckVxBXhQHCMweHt_NA), where you will find fellow open bioinformatics folks to chat.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can [join our community _Slack_](https://join.slack.com/t/open-bio/shared_invite/zt-1pnswao9y-8igcckVxBXhQHCMweHt_NA), where you will find fellow open bioinformatics folks to chat with.
```

> * We also [have an open _LinkedIn_ group](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/9539620/) to get in touch with folks, find interesting job opportunities and more.

Reviewer 3: currently, the LinkedIn group is set to allow posting only by moderators. sometimes someone tries to post some ad for something and i delete it. i don't think we want to open up that group to random posts; it will just fill up with ads / spam and then people will leave.

* Last but not least, we also have active presences on social media, on both [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/openbio.bsky.social) and [Mastodon](https://genomic.social/@openbio).

## Come to our in-person and virtual events

We organize an annual conference, the [_Bioinformatics Open Source Conference_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc) (BOSC) and the associated [_Collaboration Fest_](https://www.open-bio.org/events/bosc-2025/ismb-collaborationfest-2025/).
These events are a great way to meet others engaged in open source/science around biology.
BOSC features talks, posters and panel discussions on the latest research in open bioinformatics, while 
Collaboration Fest offers the chance to work together with others on improving open bioinformatics tools, by coding but also writing documentation and other non-coding tasks.

# Applying to become a voting member of OBF

You can also apply to become a voting member of the Open Bioinformatics Foundation, which allows voting on larger OBF issues. 

> There are no dues at present, but we expect members to already be actively engaged in open bioinformatics work in some form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To be considered as a voting member, you must already be actively and demonstrably engaged in open bioinformatics work in some form.
```

> Examples of such engagement could include contributing to existing open bioinformatics projects, publishing in the field, attending conferences such as BOSC or other forms of engaging with the OBF community for a while.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Examples of such engagement could include contributing to existing open bioinformatics projects, publishing in the field, or attending open source bioinformatics conferences such as BOSC.
```

Reviewer 3: don't need the "or other forms" since the sentence started with "examples"

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

The reason for this requirement is that we expect members to have a long-term engagement with both the field and the OBF itself.

> Especially as for the OBF has a quorum system for votes among the membership, we require some level of prior engagement with the OBF. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The OBF requires a quorum for voting, so we want OBF members to remain actively involved.
```

> The best time and place to join is at the annual [BOSC](/events/bosc/) conference, because attendees are automatically deemed eligible based on the fact that they attended BOSC, but you can apply for membership at any time. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 3: i felt this was out of place with the new stricter criteria for applying to be a voting member. but we can leave this if desired.

Author: presumably having been to BOSC would still count as evidence of being an active community member though or did we plan to make that not enough? I don't have a strong opinion either way!

Reviewer 2: I would think attending BOSC ought to be enough here (certainly it has been historically).

Reviewer: I actually like the statement, and find it's useful here. I would vote against deleting it.

Author: Okay, let's keep it if no one has strong feelings for removing it!

![](/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/obf_membership.jpg)

## History and Bylaws

The OBF membership body was formally established at the 2005 Board of Directors meeting. As laid out in the [OBF Bylaws](https://github.com/OBF/obf-docs/blob/master/OBF%20Bylaws.md), officers in the Board of Directors will be elected from the nominees by the membership, and candidates for future Directors will be nominated from the membership when seats are added or a term expires.

> OBF members are invited to attend the annual public Board meetings, which are announced via the (low-traffic) OBF members mailing list, as well as on our blog and via our social media channels.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Voting members are invited to attend the annual public Board meetings, which are announced via the (low-traffic) OBF members mailing list, as well as on our blog and via our social media channels.
```

## Participation

The Board established the membership body as the platform from which major future changes to the OBF's mission, agenda, and scope will originate

- through active participation and discussion
- through providing the future leadership of the OBF.

> If you are actively engaged in bioinformatics, have ideas and the energy to advocate them then we encourage you to join as a member, and perhaps to nominate yourself for future elections to the Board. The bylaws define terms for Directors as well as Officers; seats will come up for election every year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are actively engaged in bioinformatics, have ideas and the energy to advocate them then we encourage you to apply to become a voting member, and perhaps to nominate yourself for future elections to the Board. The bylaws define terms for Directors as well as Officers. Elections are typically held yearly or when needed.
```

> [Join the OBF now!](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSflxafcgc7BOLEgppy3h_yMWCIkV_9lJB3Z0a0Y2cJ63sRK-Q/viewform)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Apply to become a voting member of the OBF](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSflxafcgc7BOLEgppy3h_yMWCIkV_9lJB3Z0a0Y2cJ63sRK-Q/viewform)
```
